

The Tim Ferriss Show Transcripts

Episode 1:  Kevin Rose

Show notes and links at tim.blog/podcast

Tim Ferriss:This is Episode 1 of the Tim Ferriss podcast. For those of you who don’t have any context on me, I’m the author of The 4-Hour Workweek,The 4-Hour Body,and The 4-Hour Chef, which have been translated into more than 35 languages, and all three books are comprised of self-experiments.

I travel the world and find people who are world-class in different skills, and then I try to dissect that skill and test it on myself. That can rangefrom performance-enhancing drugs,to hacking the NFL combine, to outsourcing my life to India, to cramming two years of culinary school into 48 hours, or trying to learn aforeign language in a few dayswell enough to go on live television and be interviewed.It’s in search of a toolkit. You do not have to be super-human to get super-human results. 

To that end, this podcast is going to be a lot like Inside the Actor’s Studio, but not limited to actors. We will have in-depth conversational interviews withactors, investors, hackers, professional athletes, black market chemists, and everybody in-between. It will be very wide-ranging, but covering it all is really the 80/20 analysis.

In the process of speaking with these people we’ll try to suss out what are the critical few things versus the trivial many. What are the 20% of tactics, philosophies, or principles that they use to get 80% of the results they’ve had? There should be a lot of actionable bits hidden in there, or not so hidden in there, for you touse in your lifeor at least to inspire you. It will range from tactics to strategies to philosophies to motivations that they use to become the best in the world.

Without further ado, I would like to introduce you through the interview to our first guest, who is Kevin Rose, a very good friend of mine, a world-class investor and entrepreneur in his own right. His thoughts on investing translate to many different areas of life, so I hope you enjoy it, and thank you for listening.

Tim Ferriss:Kevin, would you mind doing the honors?

Kevin Rose:I’ll do the intro as long as you promise I don’t have to do this every single time.

Tim Ferriss:You do not. Once it’s recorded I’ll just use it repeatedly.

Kevin Rose:“Tim Tim Talk Talk, Episode 1.” [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:Welcome everybody, sexy and smart ladies and gentlemen. This is not Tim Tim Talk Talk. We have to think up a better name, although I do like the idea of calling it T4, which stands for Tim TimTalk Talk, but it cannot be.

Kevin Rose:I love that. It also sounds like a terminator. It sounds like you’re hard-core like that.

Tim Ferriss:T4 hormone, but that’s too boring. Everybody out there, this is Tim Ferriss, author of a few books that all sound like infomercial products you’ll see after the rotisserie chicken at 3 in the morning. This is an experimental podcast. I have my good friend, Kevin Rose, with me to make it a low-stress no-stakes experiment for my Episode 1. Thank you, Kevin.

Kevin Rose:No problem. It’s funny, you said that we should do this and I said, “Why do you want me as your first guest?” because we do The Random Show together, which appears on your blog from time to time. It’s like I think your audience would be like, “Oh, this is just The Random Show audio.”

Tim Ferriss:It’s going to be so much better, #1 because the audio is going to be incredibly impressive.

Kevin Rose:High bit rate?

Tim Ferriss:High bit rate, assuming I don’t mouth the mic and screw it up with my spittle, and I’m going to ask you questions that I normally wouldn’t ask on The Random Show as well.

Kevin Rose:One thing I want to ask you is why did you want to do this? What’s the inspiration behind this?

Tim Ferriss:The inspiration behind doing this is multi-fold. First, over the last year I had a chance to be on a couple of podcasts that I really enjoyed, like the Joe Rogan Experience, Mark Maron WTF podcast, Bryan Callen, and Adam Carolla, and I really enjoy the longer format, having time to deep-dive and also be really informal.

I assumed it had to be very produced and edited and involvea lot of labor after the fact, and for instance with the Joe Rogan Experience I was able to see it could be done really easily, casually, and still be fun for everyone involved. 

I have a great time as a participant, and also it seemed like over the next few months I’ll be doing a lot of travel –I can’t say all too much, but doing a prime time TV show on maximizing human performance, using myself as the guinea pig, which starts filming very, very soon, and I’ll be on the road a lot. So I 

figured this would be a fun way for me to get to know people I want to get to know. Just spend two hours drinking wine and digging in.

The other purpose of the podcast –and this might evolve over time –is very similar to all three books, to kind of deep-dive with people and try to extract small actionable bits that people can use.

Kevin Rose:It seems to me that you’re on the road so much and you’re constantly bumpinginto obviously really interesting folks. It’s just a shame that you’re not capturing those conversations that you’re having anyway and just put it out there for people to consume.

Tim Ferriss:Right, because I’ll go to these dinners or have wine –and we’ll get to that in a second –and learn so much. I’m like, “It’s a shame there’s only two people here, or three people here, or four people here. Nothing super-confidential was said. It would be amazing to just offer people the opportunity to be a fly on the wall listening to some of the people I bump into, who are far smarter than I am.”

What are we drinking, Kevin?

Kevin Rose:We are having a bottle of wine from a friend of mine, Chris, who owns a little tiny tiny tiny wine bar in San Francisco. When I say tiny I mean you can probably fit like 35 people in the entire place. It’s a little hole in the wall down an alleyway. It’s actually where I met my wife for our first date. It’s called Hotel Biron. 

If you’re ever in San Francisco, go there and say hi to the owner. His name is Chris, if he’s there, and tell him that you heard this on Tim Tim Talk Talk and you’ll get a discount. No, I’m just kidding, but you probably could say that and he probably would give you a discount, because he’s a cool guy like that.

I was just there actually meeting another friend and hanging out, and he was like, “Do you want a bottle to go?” and I was like, “I’m going to do Tim Tim Talk Talk. I need a bottle of wine.” The reason I’m saying the name over and over is I want it to stick.

Tim Ferriss:I know, you’re incepting people. I know how you operate.

Kevin Rose:So anyway, the name of the bottle of wine is Gamling & McDuck.

Tim Ferriss:As in Scrooge McDuck.

Kevin Rose:Scrooge McDuck. The thing is, what you’ll find there is that he is a fanatical kind of crazy wine connoisseur that likes really rare obscure wines and great stories, so every wine that he’ll pour you he’s like, “Oh, I’ve got this crazy

story. I met this winemaker, blah blah blah. They live in this little region and I like itbecause it’s this really obscure hard-to-find grape.”

It’s not really expensive wine, like you go in there and they don’t have multi-hundred-dollar bottles of wine. It’s just good prices and heavy pours. Anyway, he’s a good dude.

Tim Ferriss:That should be his tagline –“Good prices, heavy pours.” And also for people who are say visiting San Francisco, it’s right around the corner from a restaurant called Zuni Café, which is very, very well-known. Judy Rodgers originally I believe had[inaudible] Theydo incredible things with their food. You could look into something called dry brining, which they do with their roast chicken, which is amazing.

So Kevin, for those people who are listening and do not know who you are, let’s start at the beginning. You know that phrase because you use it. Why don’t you tell people a little bit about your background, where you grew up, etc.

Kevin Rose:Sure. I grew up with kind of a boring life in Las Vegas, of all places, which I don’t like to admit to many people because it’s a fun place to visitbut it’s not really a place I consider home anymore. I do like going and hanging out with friends obviously, the occasional bender out in Vegas is always fun, but I moved to the Bay Area in 2000 and started working at dot coms at the tail end of that in the tech space.

I ended up working at Tech TV and starting there in late 2002 kind of behind the scenes, and eventually ended up doing segments on a show called The Screen Savers, so I was actually on-air talent.

Tim Ferriss:Where is this?

Kevin Rose:This is in San Francisco.

Tim Ferriss:And how did you end up in SF?

Kevin Rose:I just moved out here working. I was actually doing some marketing, doing ad buys and helping them track the conversions for a little CMGI-funded start-up. It was an online furniture store and we thought we were going to make billions, but it turns out people don’t like to pay the shipping for really heavy furniture on the internet.

Tim Ferriss:Kind of like kettlebells.

Kevin Rose:Yeah, so it didn’t work out. It was very heavy stuff. Anyway, I ended up hosting a television show, The Screen Savers, on Tech TV, and then started my own 

first start-up called Digg, which is a social news site, and grew that to a pretty decent size. 

I started a couple other companies and ended up angel investing. I sold a few companies, got acquired by Google, and long story short had a big long 7-, 8-, 9-, 10 year run in the tech space and then eventually ended up as a venture capitalist at Google Ventures, so I’m a VC there. That is funding companies and helping find the next big thing.

Tim Ferriss:That was a very efficient self-introduction. Thank you for that. I should give some background I suppose, or just my personal views on things, since that’s part of the podcast. I think you’re one of the best product guys in Silicon Valley, meaning your ability to not only conceptualize and come up with product ideas, which you do all the time and then you just give them away or drop them or whatever, but you come up with a different company idea that could work ostensibly I think every week just about.

You’re also extremely good at betting on the right horses. Of course, no investor is 100%. They can’t bat 1,000, but what do you think makes you good at that, because I think many people would share that same opinion. You’re good at guessing what’s coming next or predicting what will pop or what will not pop. Is that just genetic ability? You’re just the LeBron James of angel investing? Or are there characteristics that you see in yourself or in other people who are also good at it that you can explain?

Kevin Rose:That’s a great question. I think for me I can remember analyzing people and trends all the way back in high school. The first time I rememberit, I remember there was this one kid in my class who wore a fluorescent orange jumpsuit to school. It was like what a garbage man would wear.

Tim Ferriss:Or an inmate.

Kevin Rose:Yeah, or an inmate, exactly. He was wearing thatand I remember everyone thought that was the coolest thing. Everyone was like, “Oh, he’s got that jumpsuit on,” and kids started going out and literally buying these. They weren’t made by Dickies, but a very similar brand. Actually I think maybe they weremade by Dickies but they sold them at K-Martso kids started buying them and wearing them to high school. 

I remember at that point I realized there are certain very early adopters, like taste makers. I was like, “This person can spread a trend.” At the time I was thinking about fashion because this kid was considered by many other classmates to be the cool kid, so once he did something he would influence all these other people.

It just made think, “What could I make that he would think was cooland thenit would spread throughout the class?”That’s what I got excited about, and I just kept coming up with all these ideas. I’ve always been the kind of person that just starts to think about that.

I think honestly it was just something that actually hurt mein school because I was always daydreaming about different things, and I actually got really crappy grades and didn’t do well in school because my mind was always someplace else. Once I got connected up with computers and I got really into computers, it was always about what I could build with software.

I built a couple little things that I launched as shareware and had on shareware blogs and stuff like that and made some money, and then it kind of clicked that you write this software once, you charge forit, and you don’t have to keep paying to have it made. You can just make more and more copies.

Tim Ferriss:Money while you sleep.

Kevin Rose:It was insane.So that clicked, and then I started thinking about what are the things that I would like asa consumer and that I feel could spread and really take off. It was kind of like analyzing these companies and looking at these different things and seeing them, and being that early adopter where you want to play with everything.

Tim Ferriss:The number of apps you have on your phone is incredible to me.

Kevin Rose:You have to have like a natural curiosity. I get excited. I get a hit of freaking dopamine and flutters in the stomach when I see something that is new and original and has never been done before. 

Tim Ferriss:What would be a few examples of that? What are some companies you’ve invested in, or missed for that matter, where you got the flutters in your stomach?

Kevin Rose:Twitter, for example. It was very early days when I investedin Twitter, and you were shortly thereafter. We were both investors early on.

Tim Ferriss:Two weeks later. I managed to come in after [inaudible].[laughing]

Kevin Rose:You got screwed.

Tim Ferriss:The person selling it to me was very smart, very shrewd.They held out.

Kevin Rose:We got two very different valuations. I got really lucky and Tim kind of got screwed. But the thing is, when wewere looking at Twitter there were two things that really caught my attention. One was that Jack Dorsey, the guy that 

created it, had created a model that was not about mutual friendship. Up until this point it was about Facebookand MySpace and other.You had to send a friend request and someone had to accept your friend request, and that’s the way that a social relationship happened on the internet.

Jack was smart enough to think like, “Hey, maybe it doesn’t have to be like that. Maybe you can tail or follow someone that you don’t actually know.” When he created that I remember thinking, “Wow, this is crazy.” There were a bunch of influential people that started to sign up, and I was like, “I can kind of peek over their shoulder and kind of be with them on this journey that they’re going on, and watch what they’re up to, without actually knowing them.”

I was like, “Wow, what if celebrities actually figure out how to use this thing?” It’s really easy because all you have to do to tweet is send a text message, and then you saw a celebrity or two sign up and I’m like, “Okay, this is going to be pretty huge, because if this keeps happening and more and more celebrities sign up, it’s going to be their platform because they don’t know how to blog.”

The barrierto entry is extremely low. You can misspell everything and it can be two sentences and it’s still content. So seeing that and then also figuring out that a follower count wasn’t portable. If you think about how you have an email newsletter. You can move that from email provider to email provider.

Tim Ferriss:Right, from Aweber to Mail Chimp to whatever.

Kevin Rose:You can’t move your followers to Facebook, so it was very defensible in that way. Seeing those couple things and thinking, “Okay, this could be something” –and again, I didn’t know. It was a gamble, and a lot of angel investing for me is going on your gut, so I placed a bet and just happened to win there.

For me it’s hopefully finding an insight like that, and then also finding somethingthat plays to me as a consumer. I think I’m kind of an everymanor everywoman –I don’t know if everywoman –I didn’t mean that…

Tim Ferriss:You aren’t like every woman.

Kevin Rose:I’m not like every woman, but seriously I kind of feel like if it’s something that will appeal to me and I can see myself using it on a daily basis, like I’m going to open my phone to do this two to three times per day, it could be a big deal. That’s what I look for. I’m trying to find the next Instagram or whatever it may be. I’m looking for something I’m going to use on a daily basis.

There’s like 20 spaces on your iPhone in the default screen. What is one of those icons going to be? Is there going to be something that is that prominent, that is that important that it will take up some of that default real estate on my home screen?

Tim Ferriss:We’ll talk about a lot more than investing, but I think it’s a good way to look into how you think about people and companies and just creation in general. What are examples of companies you invested in that other people did not invest in, where you were not necessarily investing alone, but going against maybe the consensus, and what were the factors that led you to decide to go in –investments that worked out. We’ll also talk about ones that didn’t.

Kevin Rose:There’s always investors that say no, including myself, in a lot of things that actually end up being really successful, so you can’t really blame somebody. I feel like –and I’m sure it’s the case for you –you look at 20, 30, 50 as a professional venture capitalist, hundreds of deals per year, and you’re going to say no to a lot of winners out there.

For me it’s like I don’t feel as though I’ve gone all in to something that everyone was against, because there’s always somebody willing to invest in that start-up.

Tim Ferriss:I guess a start-up where it wasn’t the hottest girl at the dance of the moment, because you know exactly what I mean by that. There are some deals where everybody wants in, everybody thinks it’s amazing. Not one of those deals, a deal that had less hoopla surrounding it.

Kevin Rose:There’s been a few of those even within the last year and a half or so. I’ve gone into a handful of deals that are now starting to work out, like Nextdoor I think is a great example of one I invested in maybe a year and a half ago.

Tim Ferriss:Yeah, one we both invested in.

Kevin Rose:It’s a neighborhood social network and I think that there were a lot of people that were like, “Oh, I don’t know what that’s all about or what it means.” For me, it’s funny, I don’t want comeoff on this broadcast sounding like I’m a know-it-all, because I’vebeen wrong on a lot of deals, but every once in a while you kind of see a market before it’s about to happen, and then sometimes you just miss it all together, like Pinterest. I had an opportunity to invest early on, saw it, liked it, ended up passing, and I’m kicking myself every single day.

But Nextdoor was one where I saw it was like, “Okay, this is connecting neighbors on a very social level,” which I like because in San Francisco andbig cities we don’t know our neighbors. It’s not like you can walk across the street and be like, “Hey Jim, how’s it going?” You might know one house in any direction, but not two or three houses. 

You don’t know who those people are, so the idea of creating that social fabric so you can have ad hoc things come together like neighborhood watch 

programs, and eventually commerce on top of a neighborhood graph,whichI think is really interesting.

Tim Ferriss:What types of commerce?

Kevin Rose:Like goods being sold. I see couches for sale on Nextdoor, which were for sale on Craigslist six months ago, things like that. That trusted neighborhood network is starting to create really unique opportunities for people to exchange goods and services. 

There’s a plumber that was on there last week like, “Hey, I’m a plumber. I live in the neighborhood if anybody ever needs me.” It’s just a different platform that was created out of people getting to know each other in their local neighborhood that I thought wasinteresting. I think a year and a half ago nobody was really talking about it. Nobody really thought it was that exciting.

Tim Ferriss:What do your investment mistakes have in common, if anything?If you were to say, “You know what, I should have known better because X. I did X, I didn’t do X, such and such happened, I shouldn’t have done that.”

Kevin Rose:For me the mistakes that have occurred are, first, in passing on deals. I think when you’re using your own money, especially when you’re an angel investor, you are extremely picky, almost too much so. On a 1 to 10 –10 meaning is you’re just over the moon excited about doing this deal –when you’re an angel and you have limited capital you’re thinking, “Okay, I have to be a 9 or higher to makethis happen, to actually want to put money into this company,” and I think there were a lot of great 8’s in there that I just passed on. Had I had more cash at the time, I probably would have done those deals.

Tim Ferriss:That’s also because as an angel you have very significant downside, meaning you can lose all of your own capital, and then you have the potential upside of a relatively small investment because you’re on [inaudible]. If you’re working at a fund like Google Ventures you have hundreds of millions of dollars to deploy.

Kevin Rose:Sure, so you can make $100K bets all day long.

Tim Ferriss:Right, and there’s zero downside, and ride the winners.

Kevin Rose:So I think a lot of mistakes have been there. There’s always the deals that you fund because as an angel you’re friendly with some peopleand you’re backing them as an entrepreneur because you really like the person, and there’s nothing wrong with that. You’re betting on a person. You might not necessarily like the general spacethat they’re in, but you’re betting they can kind of figure it out. Sometimes you lose on those and that’s fine.

Tim Ferriss:That’s true also even with the example you gave, which was Twitter. I mean if we’re looking at Odeo…

Kevin Rose:For people that don’t know, Odeo was the start-up that became Twitter.

Tim Ferriss:Right, and he’s had a lot of businesses, as you’ve mentioned in interviews before or he’s mentioned in interviews before, like VHS tapes to teach people how to use the internet.

What was your first business?

Kevin Rose:My first business was a piece of software. Well, it goes way back before that. When I was like 12 I had a little software company called Foliage Software. It wasn’t actually a software company but I had business cards made so it felt like a software company.

Tim Ferriss:How old were you?

Kevin Rose:Maybe 12, something like that.I basically wrote little programs in Basic, and then I found this program that would compile –actually it wasn’t Basic. I wrote some tricky little utilities using batch, like in batch files, and then I got some software that compiled them into exe’s and then tried to sell them to shareware. That was super geeky, but I’ve always been tinkering for a long time.

Tim Ferriss:What was the shittiest job you’ve ever had?

Kevin Rose:Working at Olive Garden. I made breadsticks there and smelled like garlic all the time.

Tim Ferriss:This is something a mutual friend of ours has said as well, Chris Sacca, that it’simportant to have had one shitty job, preferably in the service industry. I think it really teaches you a lot about yourself and service and humankind in general. So youwere making the breadsticks in the back. Did you ever have a busboy or waiting job oranything like that? If not, I forgive you.

Kevin Rose:Not really. I was never a waiter. I mean I would seat people at tables at Olive Garden as well, but don’t hate on my breadsticks. Breadsticks were a tough job, dude. Those waiters would get pissed at you if you didn’t have the breadsticks out on time, because they made their tips on breadsticks.

Tim Ferriss:How did they make their tips on breadsticks?

Kevin Rose:Because you had to have breadsticks on the table, dude. Breadsticks always have to be on the table. I still have dreams about this. Breadsticks need to be on the table. If the customers don’t have their breadsticks, they’re not happy.

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] They’re pissed, yeah.

Kevin Rose:It’s all-you-can-eat breadsticks, and salad.

Tim Ferriss:That’s a lot of breadsticks.

Kevin Rose:Dude, it’s a lot of breadsticks. At any given time there’s two big-ass trays of breadsticks at Olive Garden going into the oven.

Tim Ferriss:Okay, I’m going to do a couple of rapid fire questions just to mix things up. Actually, I wanted to also just add a bit of context to the angel investing discussion, because it may seem outside of the scope of your daily life, but things are going to change very dramatically very soon. 

On September 23, something called general solicitation is going to have a big impact on investing in general, where Average Joe or Jane, so to speak, the public will have access to deals that are advertised or promoted by angel investors, venture capitalists, hedge fund managers, and so on and so forth.

This is something that’s unprecedented and related to the JOBSAct. Previously people had to be part of a very small club to have access to these deals, and they will now see them promoted on the internet and elsewhere –who knows, television perhaps.

I think the mechanisms for determining your own risk tolerance and deciding on investing will become in some ways more complex, because people are going to get hit with a lot of promotion, so just a passing recommendation to people would be to read the annual letters by Warren Buffett, which are compiled and gathered in paperback form.

Of course, the first rule of investing is, “Rule #1, Do not lose money. For Rule #2, see Rule #1,” according to Buffett, but as an annual thing it’s important. You need to develop rules. You’re going to miss some winners, but develop rules so that you can at least avoid losing a large chunk of capital. That’s all I have to say about that.

Kevin Rose:It’s interesting to think that this Act is going to open up new worlds for everyday investors to come in and do more angel-style investing.

Tim Ferriss:Yeah, the way that people go onto Kickstarter and give money to people for prizes or rewardsof different types, they’ll be able to do that but for equity, actual percentages in a company.

Kevin Rose:It’s crazy. When you hear about most of this stuff you think, “Oh, it’s those people out in Silicon Valley in California doing all this stuff,” and you’re right to be thinking that. Obviously a lot of that stuff gets funded and everything out 

here, but when this happens and eventually the tools that form around it will enable anyone anywhere to participate and get involved at a much earlier stage,which is exciting. There’s a lot of risk, but there’s also potentially a lot of reward on that stuff.

Tim Ferriss:Definitely. We’ve talked about this before, but I tend to take a barbell approach to investing, which is say 20% in highly speculative start-up stuff and then 80% injust safe cash-like equivalents of some type. Don’t gamble with more than you can afford to lose, is I think a good way to go about it.

Let’s do a couple of rapid fire questions. I’m borrowing these from all over the place. Ifyou could be a breakfast cereal, what breakfast cereal and why?

Kevin Rose:Oh boy, it’s these types of questions. This is like the Google interview questions. They’re like, “How many ping pong balls can you…”

Tim Ferriss:This is easier. What kind of breakfast cereal?

Kevin Rose:I hate the “…and why?” part. 

Tim Ferriss:Okay, you can just give a cryptic answer. No why required.

Kevin Rose:I’m going to go with steel cut oats.

Tim Ferriss:That’s very Amish of you.

Kevin Rose:Are wetalking like kids’ cereal?

Tim Ferriss:Whatever, man.

Kevin Rose:I don’t want to suggest something that’s bad for people’s health out there, and they start consuming it and all the sudden…

Tim Ferriss:We’re like double-fisting wine here and you can’t suggest a cereal? [laughing]

Kevin Rose:I would say straight-up kids’ breakfast cereal would probably be like the Choco Puffs.

Tim Ferriss:Now I’m going to go back on my word. Why Choco Puffs?

Kevin Rose:Just because I really like chocolate. I don’t have any great answer.

Tim Ferriss:That was a terrible question and an even worse answer. [laughing] Let’s continue.

Kevin Rose:This inbeta, man. Never again will the breakfast cereal question come up.

Tim Ferriss:That was a shitty lead on my part. Complete this statement:“My favorite time of day is ___” and why.

Kevin Rose:Probably evening, just because I get to decompress a little bit.

Tim Ferriss:How do you decompress in the evening?

Kevin Rose:It’s dinner with my wife and just kind of hanging out and having a glass of wine or something, especially wine with good food is awesome. We cook a lot at home.

Tim Ferriss:What is your favorite meal and wine to decompress?

Kevin Rose:I found this little charcuterie place around the corner from my house that sells aged beef, 100-day dry-aged big old chunk of beef sous-vide in a water bath at medium rare, and then it’s like flash-grilled so you render all the fat, then just a big old tasty cab. 

Tim Ferriss:Sounds great.

Kevin Rose:You’d like that, right? You’re a meat eater.

Tim Ferriss:I would, so medium-rare would be what? Like 125?

Kevin Rose:130-135 is medium rare. How did I know that and you don’t, and you have a cooking book? You should cut this out of the podcast.

Tim Ferriss:I’m not going to cut it out. 125 is fine.

Kevin Rose:That’s on the rare side.

Tim Ferriss:Yeah I know, but if it’s thin and then you sear it…

This is a two-parter. As you’ve gotten older, what has become more important to you and what has become less important to you?

Kevin Rose:More important to me as I’ve gotten older is honestly like time to stay in shape, more gym time, more time to actually keep the beer gut down. It’s harder as you get older. And less important I would say is some of the hard-core tinkering, like I used to like to build computers from scratch. I just want my computer to work now. 

I put freaking OS X Mavericks on my laptop, which is like the beta version of OS X, and it’s crashing shit. I’m just like, “Are you kidding me? What am I doing?”  I don’t know why I had to have it, but I did and now I can’t even write 

an email or my browser locks up.It’s like“Get off my lawn!” like a grandpa. I just want shit to work. It’s weird how that happens.

Tim Ferriss:I have the same thing. I mean there’s a point where you feel the scarcity of time and the value of time increasing because you start seeing gnarly shit happen to people, or friends dying or whatever. It freaks you out.

Kevin Rose:Oh, I know, that’s the scariest part, man. 

Tim Ferriss:You’re like, “You know what? I’m not going to spend a week figuring this out. That’s bullshit. I just want this to work.”

Kevin Rose:You know what’s funny is when you’re a kid you think everyone’s just healthy, and then all the sudden you become an adult. Gosh man, I’ve had some really bad experiences. I’ve seen friends of mine that aren’t that much older, like a good friend of mine’s wife has cancer now and he’s only a few years older than me and that’s scary as hell, so you start to value time a lot more.

Tim Ferriss:Who’s the first person that comes to mind when you hear the word “successful” and why is that?

Kevin Rose:I think Philip Rosedale is the first person to come to mind.

TimFerriss:Philip is awesome. Do you want to tell us a little bit, just so people know who Philip is?

Kevin Rose:It’s weird that when I think about that that I would pick Philip. Philip created a virtual world back in the day that was really popular, way before its time, called Second Life. It became extremely popularand later, like all internet things, eventually declined in usage because it just wasn’t as cool as it was when it came out. 

He then went on to start a company. He tinkered around with a handful of different things that didn’t quite work out, and now he’s on to his next thing called High Fidelity. The reason that I say Philip is that success in my mind doesn’t necessarily mean high IPOs and exits and things like that. The thing that I like about him–I shot a couple video interviews with him on my series on Foundation that you can search Philip Rosedale Foundationon Google and find.

Tim Ferriss:Foundation.kr because you let the .com slip.

Kevin Rose:Yeah,right. No, Foundation.com was not available. 

Tim Ferriss:The .net? Which onewas it?

Kevin Rose:It was .biz or something like that. I let .kr slip, but I got it back. Anyway, the thingI like about Philip is that he is such a rare person to discover. I feel like I’m lucky to even know him because he’s a big thinker. He’s a crazy mad scientist. When you watch his interview you realize that his ideas and his passion and just where his head takes things is so unique and so big-picture, bigger than you could ever dream up on your own.

Like when you think of ideas we’re like, “Oh, wouldn’t it be better if there was a better way to…” and it’s something super stupid that you want. I feel like our ideas are just incremental improvements of pre-existing little problems that we have. “My toilet paper runs out. I’d like to get a notification.” It’s dumb stuff. 

You talk to him and you realize that he is thinking about things like virtual economiesand currencies and using your iPhone as a miniature computer while you’re sleeping that does little virtual tasks and assists people in other places. You’re like, “Dude, someday when you finally have that moment, that idea that is the right idea at the right time…” –when it hits they will write books about this guy and movies about this guy. It’s rare to find those people. It’s a Tesla. Elon Musk is another one of those.

Tim Ferriss:What do you think enables them to think that way? Is it something that can be taught? Is it something that they learned how to do or are they just genetically predisposed?

Kevin Rose:I think a lot of it comes down to fear.

Tim Ferriss:How so?

Kevin Rose:When people don’t have fear they aren’t scared of big ideas. I meet a lot of entrepreneurs every single day, and all they want to do is do incremental improvements on pre-existing stuff because it’s safe. They can sell it for $20 million to Yahoo. They can sell it for $10 million to Google or whatever it may be. There’s a safety net there.

Who wants to go and create an electric car company? Who wants to go and create a freaking next-generation spaceship company? These are hard problems and it takes a certain kind of person.

Tim Ferriss:And they’re binary, too.You don’t partially succeed.

Kevin Rose:Right, you either succeed or fail. Philip is one of those guys that he’s just like, “I have a crazy idea. I’m going to go build it, and nothing’s going to get in my way. I can just do it. I don’t know how to do it right now, but I can figure it out because I’ll surround myself with smart people,” and that’s what he does.

Those people are really rare, man. There’s not a lot willing to throw everything out and just start from scratch and tackle something that’s going to change the world. When you find those people –and I’ve only met a couple –then you get really excited and you feel lucky just to know them.

Tim Ferriss:Any other examples that immediately jump to mind besides Philip and Elon?

Kevin Rose:I think Reid Hoffman is another really big idea guy. I’m excited to see if he eventually decides to get back in it. He’s Chairman at LinkedIn, and if he ever decides to go and tackle something, like what that will become.

Tim Ferriss:Do you have any ideaabout Philip’s educational background? Did he finish school? Did he study anything in particular?

Kevin Rose:Yeah, he’s a super hard-core machine code computer science guy. I don’t know if he dropped out or got his degree.

Tim Ferriss:I’m trying to see if there’s any commonalities, because Reid –many people don’t know this –but I think he has either a Master’s or Ph.D. in philosophy, a very big thinker, as you know. He’s regarded as one of the oracles, or the oracle of Silicon Valley. The guy’s brilliant.

What is your –not policy really, but do you keep in touch with friends from back in the day? Childhood friends, any of them?

Kevin Rose:Yeah, there’s a couple. 

Tim Ferriss:I’d be curious to hear what your experience has been as you’ve had more and more success in various ways and entered new peer groups and so on and so forth. How has that affected your relationships with people that you grew up with, if at all? And from what period of time?

Kevin Rose:It’s hard because growing up in a city like Las Vegas, no one really stayed there so it’s not like when I go back to town I see all my friends from high school or college. We all split off and went to different places. I have one friend that’s still there, but other than that everyone’s in different cities. Some are back east, some are in LA, they’re just all over the place, but I try to keep in touch. I’ll trade texts. 

There’s certain times of the year or certain things that come up in your head that pop into your mind and you’re like, “Oh my gosh, that was so crazy when we did this,” and you’re texting everybody like, “Remember when we broke the law this way,” or something like that, so there’s that kind of stuff. Is this something you’re having a hard time with?

Tim Ferriss:It’sa challenge in some cases for me. I grew up in a very odd place. I grew up on the eastern end of Long Island in the Hamptons, where you have two groups. Actually there’s more than two groups, but for simplicity’s sake you have the city people, rich Manhattan-ites who come out to ‘summer in the Hamptons’ and then you have the townies. The townies range, but typically include people involved in service industries –landscapers, waitresses, waiters, real estate brokers, although they’re getting pushed out by people like Sotheby’s, who are based in Manhattan. There’s a lot of alcoholism, not very good education, and it’s a pretty dismal picture.

I found it very difficult for myself to transition from having more in common with the townies to having more in common with the city people. It’s been a real existential issue for me.

Kevin Rose:So you don’t have things in common with the city people anymore?

Tim Ferriss:No, no, as I went through high school and then left Long Island, I initially was 100% townie and then I started to move where I was like 90% townie, 10% city person, as I went to undergrad, then 70% townie, 30% city person.

Kevin Rose:Where do you think you are now?

Tim Ferriss:I can empathize with the city people nowand I feel like I’m straddling both. I go back and it’s like I have some of my closest friends who have died in the last two years of drug overdoses, so I feel like I’m kind of trapped in-between these –not trapped, that’s a dramatic word, but I’m straddling these two worlds.

I grew up hating people who came in from Manhattan. They were just so rude and entitled and annoying and irritating. Part of it was that I was working as a busboy, so I saw the worst that humanity had to offer. Now it’s difficult for me sometimes to identify and have a conversation with a shared interest with some of the friends I grew up with –not because I’m better, by any stretch of the imagination. We’re just in such different tracks.

Kevin Rose:I still feel more at home with my younger friends. I feel like a fish out of water in the Bay Area.

Tim Ferriss:I would caveat what I just said with the fact that I left Long Island –I actually petitioned my parents to do this –to go to boarding school in New Hampshire, and that’s where I forged my closest friendships that I still have to this day. I am absolutely closest to those people. When I went to college I didn’t have a lot of close bonding experiences, because I already had the “away from home” scenario.

I don’t feel like a fish out of water in the Bay Area, but it’s proven harder to develop really close friendships, I think, the further you get along in a certain 

professional track. Not always. I mean I do have close friends in the Bay Area…not to meander too far, but it’s just something that I’ve seen some people have a lot of challenges with, and other people don’t have any.

Kevin Rose:I think for me, I grew up in a pretty lower-middle income family. That’s always felt like home. I have a bunch of really crappy 90’stattoos.

Tim Ferriss:What’s your worst tattoo? Can you explain to everyone?

Kevin Rose:Like a freaking flame on my legs. I’ve got really bad tattoos. They’re in the process of getting removed.

Tim Ferriss:I will pay you $10,000 if I can put a tramp stamp on your lower back.

Kevin Rose:I’ll give you $20 and we’ll do the same thing.

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] You’ll give me $20 if I put a tramp stamp on your lower back?

Kevin Rose:[laughing] Here’s the deal, though. I feel most at home with people that understand that. I go to this really meathead gym and I’m surrounded by dudes with really crappy 90’s tattoos. It’s like, “Oh, I feel at home here.”

Tim Ferriss:You mean like Tasmanian devil tattoos on their arms?

Kevin Rose:Hell yeah. “What’s up, bro?” It’s the best.

Tim Ferriss:Alice in Chains –“What’s up?”

What did you want to be when you were growing up?

Kevin Rose:I always knew I wanted to be in computers ever since I was probably 10 or 12 years old.

Tim Ferriss:Really? Nothing else?

Kevin Rose:I knew. I knew the second I got a computer that I was hooked. I moved the computer into my bedroom and my parents thought it was weird. I was like, “I need to have this machine as close as possible so I can hear the fan at night. It makes me sleep.” I’m serious. I loved it, everything about it. I’d leave it on all the time. I learned every single DOS command. You can ask me how to do anything in DOS right now and I can tell you how to do it. I loved it.

Tim Ferriss:I wish I could. I definitely have non-coder’s insecurity when it relates to tech and start-ups. I really should learn how to code at least in one language. A handful of friends have been telling me I should go after Python, which I’m inclined to do. I’ll get to it eventually.

Kevin Rose:Natural languages first, programming languages second, I guess. 

Tim Ferriss:Outside of computers, if you could study with any expert in the world, who would you study with and what would you study?

Kevin Rose:I would probably pick some type of meditation guru. I know this is totally doable, but the issue that I have now is that I feel that the computer’s a constant stimulus. I don’t know about youbut it’s extremely blurred, the personal time versus work time. I’ll be at dinner and –it’s not this bad because Daryamakes me shut down the laptop at dinner –but you know what I mean. It bleeds into everything that you do.

Because of that I feel like my brain is being slowly scrambled. I feel like it’s always on edge, it’s being fragmented, and I feel like we’re going to realize in short order here in the next 10-20 years that all this distraction stuff is really messing with our brains. I feel like I need to find that balance and I haven’t done that yet.

If I could study with anyone it would probably be a 2-or 3-month just straight-up retreat with some awesome Buddhist monk somewhere that would teach me walking meditation or whatever it may be, some way to gain my soul back. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:Kevin has lost his soul. That’ll be the title of this podcast –“Kevin Rose Loses His Soul”

Kevin Rose:As long as it’s Tim Tim Talk Talk –Kevin Rose Loses His Soul.Seriously though, it’s so hard, man.

Tim Ferriss:I hear you. It’s easy to feel lost. I don’tthink I’ve talked about this typically. I feel like I’m in AA or something, wording it this way, but it’ll be 11 weeks as of this Sunday that I’ve meditated twice a day, every day, for that period of time. It would have been incomprehensible to me that I would actually do it that consistently.

Kevin Rose:You’re not counting masturbation as meditation, though, because if you are then that wouldn’t count. Then you’re like four a day. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] I’ve never masturbated. I have noidea what you’re referring to.

Kevin Rose:It’s a late night show, people.

Tim Ferriss:It’s a late night show. Sorry, all you 7-year-olds listening, but in three years you’ll learn –but not counting masturbation.

Kevin Rose:Is this a late night show, seriously?

Tim Ferriss:Because we talk about vulgar stuff? 

Kevin Rose:Oh, we can talk about whatever.

Tim Ferriss:You want to talk about penises?

Kevin Rose:No, there’s nothing else, I was just worried.

Tim Ferriss:You always talk about penises. Just admit it to everybody.

Kevin Rose:You know what I heard? No, I won’t even go there.

Tim Ferriss:Yes, say what you didn’t want to say.

Kevin Rose:It’s nothing that’s interesting.

Tim Ferriss:That’s fine. It sounded offensive.

Kevin Rose:My buddy that owns this wine bar that we were talking about, he got Square –you know that credit card system?

Tim Ferriss:Of course I know Square.

Kevin Rose:I’m explaining to the users out there. Square is basically like this little tiny dongle that you can plug into your iPad or iPhone, and you can swipe your card and that’s how you pay for things. Everyone’s kind of seen this now.So basically he was telling me that 30% of his signatures –you know how you have to sign the iPad with your finger –30% are penises. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] That is awesome! I’m going to start doing that. Send that to the credit card company and they’re like, “Is that your signature?” and I’m like, “What the fuck do you think? It’s a penis. Of course it’s not my signature.”

Kevin Rose:He said, “I see more scribbled penises than you’d believe. People are drunk and they just sign a penis.” I thought that was pretty funny.

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] That is awesome! Why have I never done that?

Kevin Rose:I don’t know.

Tim Ferriss:I’m embarrassed to admit that I’ve never signed with a penis before.

Kevin Rose:So if you go there and you see Chris and you get that discount, sign with a penis.

Tim Ferriss:Speaking of balance, technology, and so on –I don’t count masturbation, just to come back to that –but 20 minutes a day, twice a day, transcendental meditation blah blah blah –I’ll talk about it more another time, I want to focus on you, Kevin Rose. Sotechnology. It does cause a lot of blurring, so you get this work/life blending instead of balance. What is one technology you think you could live without?

Kevin Rose:Television, absolutely, except for football.

Tim Ferriss:There are a lot of self-righteous San Francisco techies –and I’m sure they’re elsewhere –who are like, “Oh, I never watch television. I don’t even have a television,” and they watch five hours of fucking YouTube every day, and that’s just ridiculous. You can’t say you don’t watch television.

Kevin Rose:I watch TV.

Tim Ferriss:That’s fine, but if you’re watching something like jaguars attacking crocodiles and kitten videos and parkour for four hours on the internet, it’s the same thing.

Kevin Rose:Timewise, yeah. They talk about how much the average American household watches TV. Don’t get me wrong, I do enjoy a great movie. I enjoy a miniseries like Battlestar Galactica or something like that, but only once it’s been a few seasons in and people are like, “Oh, you’vegot to see this.” Other than that, I would rather spend time working on businesses.

You were talking earlier about traits that successful entrepreneurs have. All the great entrepreneurs I know, their projects bleed into their personal lives. It’s sad, but it’s true. They’re focused on that.

When I was building some of the companies I built in the past, it’s always been about cutting out that type of stuff, like figuring out where you can prune and cut and create more space so that you can actually have the time to put in the 10-to 12-hour days, and it doesn’t feel like it, especially when it’s something you’re really passionate about. It doesn’t feel like you’re putting in that much time, but you can’t expect to be a successful entrepreneur just working 9-5. It just doesn’t work that way.

Tim Ferriss:Just to address common misconceptions of the whole 4-hour shit….

Kevin Rose:Oh, somebody said that. They’re like, “Kevin’s right.”

Tim Ferriss:“Tim Ferris, what the fuck?” so let me address that. For people who haven’t read it, The4-Hour Workweekis about optimizing per-hour output, end of story. You maximize your per-hour output, increase it 5-10X. Then if you’re a VC or 

investment banker or whatever, you still work the same number of hoursbut you have an improved volume of output. The same for start-up people.

The objective is to use your time wisely and allocate it to the things that you’re passionate about. In that case for you it would be let’s say some of your start-ups that you’ve worked on. For me, where I feel like I’m an Archimedeslever or can utilize an Archimedes lever to really have the broadest impact is say with the books, so I’ll spend three years on a book. That’s a serious investment of time. The objective is not to be idle, just to emphasize that.

I think you should be looking for something that consumes you, in a way. I know that might sound negative to some people, but if you’re not at “Hell yes!” about what you’re doing, then why are you doing it, or should you be looking for something else?

So television, fair enough. Let’s drop TV. You mentioned documentaries. Any favorite documentaries?

Kevin Rose:Gosh, I’d have to go back and look at the stuff I’ve watched, like Food Inc is a great one. I really enjoyed that one. It kind of shedssome light on the industrial food process and how nasty and horrible it is. That’s definitely top of my list. I don’t really have any that jump out as being very exciting.

Tim Ferriss:Man on a Wire is worth watching.

Kevin Rose:Have you seen Who Killed the Electric Car? 

Tim Ferriss:No.

Kevin Rose:I heard that was pretty good.

Tim Ferriss:Graham’s giving the thumbs up.Graham’sour silent partner in this 3-person podcast. Who Killed the Electric Car –what’s it about?

Kevin Rose:Just how the electric car died the first time around when they tried to get it off the ground, the GM EV1. Who was it that came out with the Nova at one point, and then they tried to sell it in Spanish-speaking countries and it was the Nova –“doesn’t go” –so they couldn’t sell the car. Oops.

Tim Ferriss:If you could stop the clock and live forever at a particular age, what age would you choose?

Kevin Rose:That’s a good question because obviously you don’t know how things are going to feel in the future, but I would say as far as my general…

Tim Ferriss:I’m sure your joints and muscles will improve as you get older. Spunk, eh?

Kevin Rose:Your spunkiness and just ability to recover…

Tim Ferriss:You’re doing a shitty job on your wine.

Kevin Rose:Dude, I told you I had two glasses before I got here.

Tim Ferriss:I’m not trying to be an enabler, I’m just saying you’re doing a shitty job with your wine.

Kevin Rose:You’re trying to promote alcoholism on your first podcast. That’s a little hard core. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:I’m waiting for the alcohol brands to sponsor me for my next episode.

Kevin Rose:So what was the question again? 

Tim Ferriss:Any age…

Kevin Rose:Oh, 24. That sounds about right. Your mid-20’s are kind of like your prime, right? 

Tim Ferriss:What are some of your pet peeves? What are some things that drive you insane?

Kevin Rose:One of the things that drives me insane is that I feel as though in our industry thereare a lot of people that are tech that aren’t really direct. It drives me nuts when people beat about the bush. Really, you just need to say the truth. Even though it’s painful and it stings now, at least people know where you stand.

Tim Ferriss:It saves everyone a lot of time.

Kevin Rose:It saves everyone a ton of time.

Tim Ferriss:What would be an example of that? What circumstance?

Kevin Rose:I see this all the time in my world and the venture capital world. I recently changed the way that I say no to people now.

Tim Ferriss:Hmm, this is of great interest to me.

Kevin Rose:I would say that the majority of time with venture capitalists, when you’re an entrepreneur and you go out looking to raise some money, you meet with someone at a VC firm and they sit down and say, “Show my your idea,” and then you go through it. Then typically you get an email 24-48 hours later saying, “This is how we want to proceed or not proceed.”

Oftentimes the email on not proceeding is like, “You know, I talked with our partnership and I don’t think it’s a good fit at this time,” or “I’m so busy with my current investments that I don’t think I have time to take on anything new, but thank you for your time.”

Tim Ferriss:“Let’s talk in six months,” or whatever.

Kevin Rose:It’s such BS, man. It’s a soft no. It’s funny, the other day I was sitting there writing a no to someone in email, which for me in the past has typically been like, “I thought about it. We really don’t think it’s something that we want to invest in. Thanks and we’d love to talk to you in the future,” blah blah blah, right? The typical one that you read everywhere else, right?

Then I just started thinking, “I’m going to try to be very directwith the entrepreneur and just see what the response is like.” I feel like I might come off as a dick, and that’s the worry. The concern is that you come off like you’re just being…

Tim Ferriss:[inaudible] other places 

Kevin Rose:I think at least people would be like, “You know what, you know where he stands,” so I tried it for the first time last week, actually. The entrepreneur wrote back and he was like, “Dude, thanks for being honest. I appreciate it.”

Tim Ferriss:What was your wording? I’m curious because this is something I know a lot of people battle with –how to say no.

Kevin Rose:I liked the idea. I thought that the space was generally really boring. I didn’t know how bit a business it would become. I thought that they had decent traction. They were clearly going to get their next round of funding because of that traction, but it wasn’t something where I was going to be over-the-top excited to answer their emails and get pumped up about.

So I wrote the guy an emailand I said, “Listen, I don’t think I’m the right partner for you. I think the idea is sound, but I’m not excited about this space at all. It doesn’t get me excited and I just don’t think when you need someone to reach out to and to help you out, that I’m going to be the one that’s going to jump back and be the right partner.”

He wrote back and was like, “Dude, thanks for the direct feedback or honesty. I look forward to seeing you next time you’re in town,” because he’s out of town. It was the first time where I was like, “Wow, that actually…”

Tim Ferriss:It’s also a good founder who can take it.

Kevin Rose:I’ve done that before in working with some engineers, and I want to start living by that because I think it’s the right thing to do.

Tim Ferriss:I think you’re a very good communicator. You’re also a very good negotiator. I’ve seen you live, and both are very inter-related. Do you think you’re a good communicator, and why or why not? Let’s do that first, and then obviously the overarching question is what makes a good communicator/negotiator? I think they go together.

Kevin Rose:That’s hard. It’s funny because I was just negotiating a car lease today and I don’t think I’m that good of a negotiator because this guy just mopped the floor with me. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:Yeah, but you don’t give a shit about your car. That’s why. I’ve seen you negotiate things you care about, and you’re good.

Kevin Rose:That’s probably true. So on the communication front I feel like…

Tim Ferriss:Plus that guy’s done the same fucking negotiation a million times. He’s like, “I’m so glad you asked that blah blah blah bullshit. Let me verbally punch you in the solar plexus.”

Kevin Rose:I know. I literally walked out of the place today, walked down thestreet, and the guy’s texting me like, “Come back. We could talk about this,” and I’m like, “Why didn’t we talk about this 20 minutes ago when I sat in your office for 45 minutes?” He’s like, “Oh, there’s wiggle room now,” and I’m like, “How is it there wasn’t wiggle room 45 minutes ago, and you’ve brought me the crappy coffee and I’m sitting there in the office sweating my ass off because it’s hot?”

I need to invent a new car start-up because there needs to be straight transparent real talk, no negotiation. I don’t know, there’s a lot of car companies out there.  But communication-wise, I appreciate the compliment but I think for me, what people have said –and sometimes I get in trouble for this, I always did when I was doing PR at Digg –I would just say whatever was the truth, and not necessarily the best thing to say, but just really the honest thing.

Like when we were having user revolts on our site when I was running Digg –it was a very social site so we had like millions of users revolting againstus online –I would get in front of the camera and just be like, “Yeah, it sucks. Our servers are falling over. We’re getting crushed right now,” and PR would be like, “Okay, you can kind of say this, and you should word it like this next time.” I don’t know, man.

Tim Ferriss:I suck at that, too, because people don’t trust you if you’re reading a script.

Kevin Rose:Exactly, and that is an old process and old way of thinking. People nowadays can see right through that crap. Literally you just have to tell the truth, whether it sucks or it doesn’t suck. I got in trouble another time when I was on stage and I was talking about our engineering problems at Digg.

Tim Ferriss:Who chastised you? Was this the board of directors, investor types?

Kevin Rose:No. Well, I’m sharing some insider information here, but we had this group on Facebook that was a bunch of ex-Digg employees. 

Tim Ferriss:Dedicated to being ex-Digg employees.

Kevin Rose:They were, but I was also a member of that group because I had since left Digg. The blame is definitely on me from the get-go because I’m the one that founded the company, so the buck stops with me, but I’m allowed to tweak and figure out what I did wrongso I can hopefully avoidthose mistakes in the future.

So I was saying a lot of what I thought I did wrong, including, as Jack Dorsey puts it in the interview that I did withhim –he says you need to constantly be pruning and editing your team to make sure that you have the right people in the right roles. That’s something, as a successful entrepreneur, he has constantly done. That means sometimes having very difficult tough conversations with employees and letting people go.So I talked about that on stage and talked about how I would have done things differently, blah blah blah, and I upset a lot of past employees.

Tim Ferriss:What upset them?

Kevin Rose:Just that I would put the blame on engineering when they thought the blame was on upper management and blah blah blah. Don’t get me wrong. The blame was absolutely on upper management. I think there’s blame to be put all over the place. I could point to 1,000 different things that we would do differently next time around.

Tim Ferriss:If I were to just try to bring it back to this original question, it seems like you’re surprisingly comfortable having uncomfortable conversations. I’ve seen you do this live a couple times, where you’re asking for things that perhaps other people wouldn’t ask for but that you should ask for, or you’re saying things that maybe you shouldn’t say by some politically correct standard, but you do.How did you get to that point? 

It seems like the reason a lot of people fail, whether it’s negotiating for a raise or negotiating any type of deal or asking for anything they want or coming clean and avoiding some huge fucking PR scandal just by being honest at the outset, they’re not willing to have those uncomfortable conversations, so why do you think you’re so comfortable doing that?

Kevin Rose:I think it’s probably because I want to avoid an even more difficult conversation down the road if I’m caught not speaking the truth the first timearound. It’s a lot more difficult to have the conversation to say like, “Oh yeah, I kind of wasn’t fully bringing everything to light in this original conversation.” I don’t know,man. If you admit your faults then other people can’t point them out in you, you know what I’m saying?

Tim Ferriss:Yeah, definitely. It’s the same thing with stand-up comics who make fun of themselves before the audience can, to just steal the thunder in that way so that they can run the show and do what they want to do.

Kevin Rose:I never thought about this before. It’s funny that you bring it up. I feel like that’s probably the reason why, because I want to say everything there is to be said that’s negative so we can get that out of the way so I don’t have to be ridiculed in some way. I think that at Digg especially we were under a lot of scrutiny all the time because we had such a very vocal audience that was taking down sites and servers because we had so much traffic.

Tim Ferriss:It took down my server. The first time my servers got taken down I remember very clearly I was in New York City and I had this very odd blog post called “From Geek to Freak: How I Gained 34 Pounds of Muscle in 28 Days” that hit the Digg front page and took down my whole fucking site, andit was a big deal. That was a very important defining moment for me. I remember that. Digg was extremely powerful for a very long time.

Kevin Rose:And because of a lot of that, the press used to always sit down with us and be like, “What do you think about your audience and the fact that they make these types of comments about certain users? Or there’s a post about certain ladies in bikinis and that hit the front page and got all these clicks, and all these men are saying these really crude things. Howdoes that make you feel?”

I felt like I was always being hit with all these kind of like, “You suck. Tell us why you don’t suck” questions. I was just like, “You know what? You’re right, we do suck.” That’s the only thing you can do.

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] Like, “Look, humanity’s fucking brutal. I’m sorry.” How many monthly unique visitors did you have at the height?

Kevin Rose:38 million was the highest.

Tim Ferriss:If you take 1,000 people in an auditorium –like think of any schoolplayor any Little League gameand you have like300 dads. There are alwaysgoing to be four fucking asshole dads who are like yelling and screaming and blue in the face. So you take 38 million people and you extrapolate it out andof course you’re going to have a fucking mess on your hands.

Kevin Rose:I just realized at that point you’ve just got to surrender and not fight. It actually helps out a ton because people are like, “Oh, he’s just human.”

Tim Ferriss:That’s really important I think is to at least mention. The things you suck at is a way of not only credentializing everything you say after that, but also qualifying the users that come to your site or that use your product, by explaining who should not use your product, if that makes sense.

What would you say that you are world-class at?

Kevin Rose:I would say every couple years I will come up with something idea-wise that I have never seen done before. The thing that I enjoy more than anything else out of anything I’ve ever done in life, outside of the emotional side of finding your wife and dating and things like that, has to be….

Tim Ferriss:Things like that?

Kevin Rose:I’m just saying that’s another thing, because that’s awesome too, but I’m saying career-wise it has to be those moments where you have those original ideas that come to you and you’re just like, “This has never been done before.” You prototype it, you build it, and you look at it and you’re just like, “Wow. I don’t know if this is ever going to be anything big, but I’m the first person that thought of this.” That is a really cool idea.

We had maybe 10 or 15 moments throughout Digg’s history where we were the first ones to do some of these things, and that is coolest feeling, man, when you create something that millions of people end up using and you’re just like, “Dude, I made that.” You feel so emotionally tied to it.

It’s funny because we built a lot of stuff in the very early days of Digg that went on to be used in many other products, including stupid things like Facebook using a Like button. We created social voting way back in the day and had it spread to profiles, and the nuts and bolts of how that stuff worked –some of the comments stuff that we did with the voting, and a lot of really crazy stuff we did like showing real-time data around votes –all this stuff eventually made it into much bigger products than what we had created. But dude, to know that you were there for a minute and played a little role in that, that was really cool.

I can remember when Zuckerberg came down to my office at Digg and sat on my floor with his flip-flops on. Facebook at the time was smaller than Digg, and he was shooting the shit with me about what he wanted to build at Facebook, and thought we were the shit. I was like, “Damn.” At the time I was thinking, “Who is this kid?” Now I look back on that and I’m like, dude, that’s so cool. 

That was a moment where we had created something that he was caught up in and thought it was really cool, and baked some of those ideas into someof the stuff that he built and went on to obviously launch to an audience that’s 100X of what we ever were.Dude, just being a part of that, like that whole movement was something that I will forever cherish. 

So your question was what am I really good at. I enjoy those moments, and if there’s anything I can bring to the people that have followed my work and that continue to follow the stuff that I do, I hope to have a few more of those in my lifetime and be able to actually launch some stuff where peopleare like, “Wow.”It doesn’t have to be big. It can be super-small. I just want people to think, “Wow, that’s something I’ve never seen before.” I love that feeling.

Tim Ferriss:I feel exactly the same way. I enjoy the newness, the inventiveness, the aha moment more than the scaling. I think it’s sometimes to my detriment. Look at the quantified self movement and so on. I was at the first meeting, been there since the beginning, did The 4-Hour Body,published in 2010, which means that I was doing research in 2007-2008, there’s a recording I did even before that…

Kevin Rose:Did you see the iPhone announcement a couple days ago?

Tim Ferriss:Biometrics?

Kevin Rose:No, not that, the new chip.What is it called, the M7 chip. They’re building into a chip –they’re off-loading all the pedometer stuff. They can tell when you’re in a car, when you’re walking, when you’re running –all that stuff is going to be built on a chip, super low power, always on, so it’s going to power like a whole other suite of quantified self stuff. To your point, you were on that shit a long time ago and now it’s actually hitting mainstream.

Tim Ferriss:Right, now it’s hitting mainstream. I think people like Dave Asprey arequite smart –Bulletproof Coffee and so on –and will probably generate more revenue for himself than I ever will personally, but I enjoyed being there at the inception, at the Big Bang moment, more than scaling. It’s something that I struggle withbecause I feel like, “Fuck. If I could’ve caught that wave a year or two later, let someone else do all the R&D,” you could monetize it so much more effectively.

Kevin Rose:Dude, it’s not too late, man.

Tim Ferriss:But I enjoy the inception momentmore than anything else. So fine, what do you think I should do, in terms of not being too late. I’m curious.

Kevin Rose:Honestly, the quantified self stuff –just now in the last Android release they’re now automatically building in at the API level,they can tell whether you’re walking, running, in a car. Apple just announced that in their latest chip like 

three days ago, same thing. The APIs and the hooks for all this stuff are there. It’s up to you what you want to build on top of it. You could do so many different things on top of that, and it’s early days, man. 

Tim Ferriss:Oh, it’s so early.

Kevin Rose:If you think about all the stuff that you’ve looked at, like as far as reading –dude, it’s funny. Also a great Tim Ferriss story, and I think this is in your book, too. When we were hanging out and watching a movie –do you remember what movie that was? This was years ago.

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] It was Inglorious Bastards, right?

Kevin Rose:Oh man, that was such a great movie. I love that movie. So we were watching Inglorious Bastards and Tim’s doing research for his book.

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] This is in my book.

Kevin Rose:You were doing something for your book, right?

Tim Ferriss:I was. We haven’t talked about this, though.

Kevin Rose:Okay. So we’re sitting there in a movie theater and we sit down, and literally you didn’t even think to say a thing to me until we had sat down. We were hanging out before or something, and you sit down and you’re like, “Dude, I’m doing this crazy experiment,” or something like that. I’m like, “What’s up?” and you pull up our shirt and you have some kind of syringe in your side.

Tim Ferriss:I had a continuous glucose monitor implanted into my abdomen.

Kevin Rose:You had a needle in you and then a wireless little thing.

Tim Ferriss:Yes, two or three needles stuck under my skin implanted into a transmitter that then went to a wireless receiver that was on my belt.

Kevin Rose:I was like, “What is this guy doing?” Talk about quantified self stuff. This was years ago, and we still don’t have that data available to us, but there’s a lot of talk, at least in some of the start-ups that I’ve seen, at external ways of gathering very similar data. They’re doing a bunch of new ways to get a heart rate, the perspiration you have coming off of you, a bunch of different things.

Tim Ferriss:There’s the galvanic skin response that’s common. There’s a start-up I haven’t talked about it.

Kevin Rose:Basis.

Tim Ferriss:Basis is cool. I’m an investor in Basis. The Basis watch is very cool. There’s another start-up that hopefully I can talk about sometime soon, which is basically like a nicotine patch. It tracks all that stuff 24/7. It’sfucking cool, super super cool.

Kevin Rose:Anyway, what I’m getting at is obviously I feel like especially in this sector there’s a lot of talk and like the origins of something, which obviously you were a big part of, and then there’s that inception point where the hardware catches up with the general discussion, and then the hardware enables…

Tim Ferriss:I thought you said ‘harbor.’ We’re getting to a great blood alcohol point now.

Kevin Rose:No, the hardware. The hardware is finally up to speed now to where you’re going to see in the next few years a lot of this stuff that we thought was impossible will actually make it into devices that we wear.

Tim Ferriss:Exactly, and the issue has been up to this point quite frankly data entry, because you have shitty devices –or I shouldn’t say shitty, but very primitive devices that only capture accelerometer data, and every other biometric data point that you want –say blood values –is really intrusive. You have to have someone come to your houseor you have to go to LabQuest…

Kevin Rose:Unless you’re a cutter. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:Unless you’re a cutter, right. Watch The Secretary, everyone. It’s a great movie.

Kevin Rose:It’s hard core.

Tim Ferriss:Oh, such a good movie. But the point being, you would have to have these invasive tests done to get the data that you want.

Kevin Rose:Sure, and there’s time around that, too. It takes time to get the tests back.

Tim Ferriss:Yeah, it takes a lot of time. I think the latency onthat is say 3-7 days, whereas as soon as that nut is cracked where you have something like a nicotine patch that you can slap on that’s good for 7 days that tracks…

Kevin Rose:Why does it have to be nicotine?

Tim Ferriss:No, it’s not nicotine, it’s just like a patch.

Kevin Rose:I thought you were like, “It’s a 2-fer. You get a little high…”

Tim Ferriss:No, no. “It’s a 2-fer, you get nicotine.” That stuff makes me so sick. Nicotine is so strong. We can talk about that another time.

Kevin Rose:Dude, you need to trim your toenails. That one is really long.

Tim Ferriss:Yeah, they’re gross, I know. I have talons, people.

Kevin Rose:Those are literally like dragon talons.

Tim Ferriss:What’s that bird, Graham? There’s a bird –a cassowary, an Australian bird that will rip your heart open with the nails on it’s feet.

Kevin Rose:That should be the title of your first show, The Cassowary. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:No one will be able to spell it. It’ll be like17 SEO’d versions. That would suck. [laughing]

“If you were a colored jelly bean, what color would it be?” Suck my balls. Not literally, figuratively suck my balls.

If you could outsource one of your daily tasks, what would it be and why? Because you have no fucking excuse, right? You’re doing well. You can pay whatever for whatever, but what of your current daily tasks, your repetitive tasks, daily or weekly, would you like to outsource, and why haven’t you?

Kevin Rose:I don’t think there’s anything else left that I want to outsource. I think I’m actually pretty set.

Tim Ferriss:So what do you bitch about that you don’t want to outsource?How’s your wine, by the way?

Kevin Rose:It’s great. I’m still working on it. I’m like a 3. I think if there’s anythingI complain that I don’t have time to focus on it’s some of the things I’d really like to get behind, like I want to learn how to garden properly. I know that sounds lame.

Tim Ferriss:No, are you kidding? That sounds amazing. What type of gardening?

Kevin Rose:I’ve got a vegetable garden right now.

Tim Ferriss:We’re both into Dr. Weil, you remember his garden? Holy shit.

Kevin Rose:Dr. Weil is my freaking idol, man.

Tim Ferriss:That guy’s garden is amazing.

Kevin Rose:We were lucky enough to go up to Dr. Andrew Weil. You probably know him as the dude with the big white beard on all the Whole Foods store shelves.

Tim Ferriss:The MD who looks like Santa Claus. He’s amazing.

Kevin Rose:He looks like Santa Claus. We got lucky to go to his house up in Canada, and the dude is like the master. He had an amazing garden, so anyway I’d like to learn more about that. Right now I havesomeone help out that comes bywho basically helps with the garden, and I understand the basics but I want to get to the level of understanding the soil composition and a bunch of other things, and I just don’t have the time to do it. I wish I did.

I think there’s a bunch of little hobbies. I think you’re getting that with the meditation, with the garden. There’s probably a handful of things. I’d like to work in fast food again.

Tim Ferriss:Elaborate, please.

Kevin Rose:I have this really weird thing where I want to go and work in fast food again.

Tim Ferriss:We talked about this, reality cam.

Kevin Rose:Until someone comes up and is like, “Kevin?” and then I’m going to run out.

Tim Ferriss:Chipotle line. “Extra guacamole is $1.50, sir.”

Kevin Rose:I’m being dead serious. I’d like to do some of that.

Tim Ferriss:We’ve talked aboutthis, like the cognitive tax that comes along with white collar work, in the sense that when you’re in front of an inbox constantlyand you’re on the phone on conference calls constantly, there’s a mental and soul tax you occur.

Kevin Rose:You don’t interact with people. 

Tim Ferriss:You’re on your own. It does not allow you to interact with other people, so we’ve both had this fantasy of working on the Chipotle line in meditative, repetitive context. How fucking awesome would that be?

Kevin Rose:I want to understand businesses that are fine-tuned.One of the things I respect about these businesses, like Chipotle is decent and I’ve heard their ingredients are pretty good, but like McDonald’s, a place that I would never ever really want to work at, but I kind of do. The reason I want to go work there is because I want to understand what processes they put in place to get the efficiencies that they do.

Imagine that you’re dealing with 16-to 18-year-old kids as the majority of your work force. These are the most unruly, crazy, spit in your hamburger type kids, and how do you manage that? That’s got to be the hardest segment of people to 

manage. I know when I was 16-18 I was doing all kinds of stupid crazy stuff, so I imagine they have systems in place.

Tim Ferriss:I wouldn’t want you making my burgers when you were 16. [laughing]

Kevin Rose:No, I know. You still wouldn’t today, but I would imagine when you look at what they have in place, everything from the ways that they monitor their employees, to the system they have set up to “Here are the three things you have to do to make this burger. Here are the seven things youhave to do to make this burger,” I just want to understand that process so I can figure out how someone would successfully franchise and scale a business like that.I’m just curious.

And also there’s something about actually serving people. I think that’s a cool thing to do, and I’d actually like to talk to you about this. I wouldn’t mind donating some of my time. I actually want to join the Boy Scouts again and help out, because I was an Eagle Scout and I was in Scouts all growing up. One of the things that my dad did when he was alive is that when I was a little kid, he was a mentor to a lot of other kids in our troop. I think that was really important and he enjoyed it. 

You have to understand in the Boy Scouts, one of the things that nobody ever really talks about, at least in Las Vegas, was that there were a lot of kids that were dropped off by their moms who didn’t have father figures. They were like, “This is the only way they’re going to get a father figure in their life.” There were a lot of boys there that just never knew their dads, and my dad was like a second dad.

At my dad’s funeral there were a couple people, one in particular that was a long-time friend of my dad’s and now is in his late 30’s, thatwasa scout that my dad kind of mentored because he considered him like a second father.

Tim Ferriss:That’s awesome.

Kevin Rose:I would like to figure out a way to get back involved in that and actually do something outside the computer and just help some people out.

Tim Ferriss:Dude, I’ll do that with you. That would be amazing. I saw a poster today. I went to a meditation class, my check-in like Alcoholics Anonymous, and there was a poster for the Girl Scouts and I was actually really inspired by this today. It was a picture of this bad-ass chick doing Taekwondo and doing a high kick and it said, “Cleopatra ruled Egypt when she was 18 yearsold. What are you doing?” It was a Girl Scout poster and I was like, “Fuck. That is a good poster. Now I feel like a lazy asshole. I need to go do something,” but it was very inspiring.

I feel like that’s a place where you could have a huge amount of impact, certainly. For me, I always thought I was going to be a 9thor 10thgrade teacher 

because I felt like that was a really critical time for mewhere I was deciding where my life was going to go. I had a lot ofbad influences to choose from and a lot of good influences to choose from.

Kevin Rose:Actually 9thgrade is so key. That’s the one.

Tim Ferriss:It’s so key, so I always thought I was going to go back and teach 9thor 10th

grade.

Kevin Rose:You would be an awesome teacher, by the way. You should doit.

Tim Ferriss:I would enjoy it. I always thought I was going to, and it just turned out that the books and the blog and blah blah blah, everything came up as a vehicle for teaching.

Kevin Rose:Here’s one thing I just want to throw out there real quick. There’s a lot of people talking about this unschooled movement where it’s like open source school where the kids can pick the different classes kind of like at their own leisure. You could put out episodes that are some courseware and the class is online, as long as you adhere to some of the unschool stuff. You could basically create your own class for the same age group.

Tim Ferriss:I’d be open to doing that, and I’d be curious to get your thoughts on this, Kevin, too. I feel like the figures that had –again, speaking as a male, so this may be unique to men or to me –but many of the people who had the biggest impact on me were maleswho were just like, “Here’s the fucking way it is and this is the program we’re going to follow,” whether that was wrestling coaches or teachers in specific subjects who gave me structure that I lacked.

Kevin Rose:You needed a little bit more discipline.

Tim Ferriss:I think that in order to be a good leader you have to learn how to be a good follower first.

Kevin Rose:I feel like that’s a famous quote that you just took from somewhere.

Tim Ferriss:I may have stolen that from somewhere but that’s my belief,that learning to be a good follower or disciple or soldier underneath someone else is very useful training for then being a leader later. I don’t think it would have been a service to me as say a 15-year-old –and I can very clearly identify this, like 14, 15, 16-year-old period where I was very lucky to encounter certain people who had a huge formative impact on my development.

In that period I feel like I needed good guidance. I needed good leaders. I didn’t need, nor in retrospect would I have wanted, someone to say, “You decide what you want to do.” I don’t know, maybe that’s me being naïve, but I really feel 

like at that point in time I needed someone to show me how to follow a good structure, as opposed to doing it on my own. What are your thoughts?

Kevin Rose:I think everyone’s different. Certainly that approach is probably a little more traditional. That’s the way things are today, right, like people are saying, “This is the class you have to take. This is the thing you have to do.”

Tim Ferriss:But there’s a difference between taking say four years of undergrad and doing all the fucking bullshit. I got my degree from Princeton, great, fantastic, and there’s a lot of fucking retards who graduate from Princeton and every other Ivy League school, but people think I’m smart because I have that on my resume or whatever, which is sillybut that’s the way it is.

I think there’s that, which is four years, versus having a good Obi-Wan Kenobi. It’s hard to go from being born to being your own Obi-Wan Kenobi, as opposed to having someone in-between who really puts you in check when you’re just being an arrogant prick as a 15-year-old, which perhaps isn’t applicable to females. I can’t speak to that because I’m not a woman, but every 15-year-old dude thinks he knows everything about fucking everything, you know what I mean? 

You need an elder to just be like, “That’s great, I’m glad you’re confident, but let me show you how this shit actually works. I’m going to push you to the breaking point. You don’t think you can do it, but I think you can do itso I’m going to push you even further.”

I remember just having this particular mentor of mine, Mr. Buxton, who was an amazing, amazing guy, or the CEO of DonorsChoose, for instance. You look at my wrestling team and you can telescope them out to these amazing outcomes, and all of them without exception, in my experience so far, have attributed back to Mr. Buxton being a fucking brilliant hard-ass in wrestling. Like you thought you could give 7and he’d be like, “No, no, no, you can give 10.” He would just push you to the breaking point.

Whenever I face anything that is difficult in my life, I look back on my experience when I was in high school and I’m like, “All right, is this harder than what Mr. Buxton pushed me to do? No, it isn’t. Therefore, I can do it.”

Kevin Rose:There’s something to be said about choosing your own path. I think that once you’ve chosen a path, I agree there’s no reasonwhy you can’t have a hard-ass under that particular vertical of whatever you’ve chosen. Like if you say, “Okay, I want to get into computer science,” you can have a bad-ass in computer science that drives you to be the best.

I feel the same way. I have atrainer at the gym, and why? Because I’ll push myself to a freaking 6 if I’m left to my own devices. If I go in with the trainer 

I’m going 11 and walking out of there sore as hell and can barely limp back to my vehicle. 

Tim Ferriss:Back to your vehicle?

Kevin Rose:Well, I want to say scooter because I have a scooter. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] I like ‘vehicle.’ 

Kevin Rose:I take a little scooter to and from the gym. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:I love that you get like super jacked at the gym and then jump on a Vespa to go home. [laughing]

Kevin Rose:I’m really embarrassed because I got the wrong color. I got a freaking gold Vespa. It’s so ugly.

Tim Ferriss:Dude, that’s ballsy. It’s like being the fucking fat guy in like [inaudible] wearing the fucking man-thong just walking around.

Kevin Rose:I wanted blackand Darya didn’t like black. She’s like, “Gold’s nice,” and I’m like, “Yeah, gold’s kind of nice,” and ended up getting the gold one. Who wants a gold scooter? It’s theworst.

Tim Ferriss:It’s very confident. I like that.So if you could find a mentor of some type, what type of mentor do you think you need?

Kevin Rose:For me it’s finding someone that fills in the gaps. I think that when you want to run a business or you want to start something new, the best thing that you can do, and the thing that one of the big learnings that I had when I was a lot younger in my early 20’s and started Digg,was that I put my head down, I put my headphones on, and I said, “I’m going to focus on product.” It was the thing that I was comfortable with and it was the thing that I understood and I knew how to do well.

I kind of closed my eyes to every other aspect of the business, whether it was financials, whether it was running the business, whether it was hiring and firing people, or whether it was scaling. There were a bunch of pieces that I just was like, “I don’t understand those. I’m going to close my eyes and pretend they don’t exist. I’m going to hire other people to run them and I’m going to just focus on what I know best.”

In retrospect I would probably go in and say –well, I know for a fact I would be honest with myself about what I don’t know, and go and absolutely try and pair up with mentors that can help me out. 

I think if I’ve learned anything in the last 10 years of doing this it’s that there is no shame in admitting that you don’t understand something, because you can either fuck it up, and that’s when you act like you understand something and you actually don’t, or you can admit it one time, learn it, and then move on and become a better person and just more well-rounded and actually get serious about building a business.

If you’re ever going to be a founder and you’re going to run that business, you have to understand that you can’t just be good at one thing. You have to understand the whole gamut, the A to Z, and at least have enough knowledge to be able to make an educated decision around certain things. I think that I was very immature and I hid from the things that I didn’t understand. Even today there’s a lot of things I still don’t understand when it comes to finance.

Tim Ferriss:What are you worst at right now? If you could conjure the perfect mentor from the ether, what are the things you most want to improve upon?

Kevin Rose:I think that for me currently, I’m decent at reading legal documents but I’m by no means a pro. There’s a lot of little weird things that attorneys like to throw in, these little curve balls and weird things into financing documentsthat as a VC you have to go through and pore through and look at certain terms, understanding how they might impact the company. 

Even today there was a term that I had never seen in a document. I thought it meant one thing and it actually meant something else. Our attorney IM’d me and she’s like, “Do you actually realize that this means this and not this?” and I was like, “Oh shit, I didn’t know that.”That was awesome. I had no idea it really would impact us if we ever decided to do XYZ.

Just sitting down and saying, “Can you explain these things,” it just takes time. You can’t be expected to know every little facet of every business, like you don’t go and get a degree in business and finance and marketing and all these different areas. You get one degree, if that.

Tim Ferriss:Plus, none of those teach you how to analyze a venture capital agreement at the end of the day. There is a very good book. I believe it’s called Venture Dealsby Brad Feld and Jason Mendelson, which is very good at introducing people to some of the common terms of venture capital and just general start-up finance agreements. Outside of that, what else? We’ve got that. We’ve got meditation.

Kevin Rose:The meditation, the gardening. The other thing I’ll say is it’s really good to have an outlet to just vent. That can be with your spouse. It’s funny, and we’re getting really deep here. Do you want me to keep going?

Tim Ferriss:Let’s do it.

Kevin Rose:It’s one of those things, and I think you’re like this too, dude, having known you long enough now. You’re kind of a closed-off person, and so am I, in that you hide some emotional stuff and you keep it close to the chest.

Tim Ferriss:You do, because people will fucking kill you if you don’t. Just dealing with like [inaudible] and shit, you’ll get fucking slaughtered if you don’t have some degree of protectiveness.

Kevin Rose:I know that, but I’m saying understanding the value in being able to freely vent to a significant other, or to talk to someone or have a good bro, or even to seek counseling or whatever it may be –having an outlet to be able to go out there and get gut checks on different things I think is a really healthy thing.

For me, I’ve had some good friends in the Bay Area, like you for example. We’ve talked about a bunch of deep stuff before. I’ve done that with [inaudible] and some other friends and things like that. I think just having that is a really healthy thing, so those act as mentors in a way, you know what I mean? I think that your close friends can act as mentors.

Tim Ferriss:Here’s a question for you. This is nothing I’ve talked about before, but I recently went to a therapist for the first time, two or three months ago, and I found it extremely helpful to speak with someone who is completely non-biased. I viewed it as a bit of a cop-out in the beginning because I felt like it was an admission of weakness to go to a therapist.

Kevin Rose:It absolutely is. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:[laughing] For the same reasonI’ve never used anti-depressants, even though I’ve dealt with that shit in my own life. I’ve never taken Prozac or SSRIs or anything like that, because I feel like it’s an admission of weakness and that I should be able to deal with it in other ways, so I’ve never gone to a therapist per se. Many people might call it a business coach or whatever, just to hide the fact.

But I went to this therapist, found it very helpful, and have not gone to a second session, even though I found the first session extremely helpful.

Kevin Rose:Why was it? Did you just feel like afterwards, “Oh god, I can’t…” because there’s a stigma attached to that.

Tim Ferriss:No, there was no over-thinking it. I was just like, “Oh, I’m fucking busy, I’m not going to do it.”

Kevin Rose:Why not though? There’s no reason not to.

Tim Ferriss:It’s funny you should mention that. I did two hours of physical therapy today because I fucked up my right shoulder doing crazy shit.

Kevin Rose:I think we need to treat our brains like that, though. You need to treat it like another muscle you would work out, and you need to figure out that that’s actually a good positive thing. I wish there were more casual therapists, something where you’re just like, “Oh, let’s meet for coffee,” somebody that’s a friend, but you’d pay them. [laughing]

Tim Ferriss:PaidFriend.co.

Kevin Rose:There’s got to be a way to lighten it up a little bit so it’s not like, “Lay in the chair and let me take out my notepad.”

Tim Ferriss:I think people have so much baggage associated with the title of ‘therapist’ that it never happens, whereas it was just useful and may have been, quite frankly, just the factthat I was able to hear myself talk for an hour and think through shit, without a friend who was subjectively trying to help me.

What advice would you give to your 20-or 25-year-old self, given everything that you’ve gone through and everything you’ve learned? Say 25.

Kevin Rose:I would say drink a little bit less. That’s a good question, actually. I haven’t thought about it. I think a lot of the things that we talked about today, like surrounding yourself with mentors and understanding to confront the things that you don’t understand, rather than hide from them. 

If it’s from a straight business point of view I would say you can do more with less. I think that business temptation when you start seeing some success tothrow bodies and servers and more people at the problem, when in reality it’s just making sure that you have the right people in the right roles. 

They have this rule at Google. I’m going to screw this up but you get the gist that it’s like the 10X rule. The right person in the right role can do the work of 10 people in the wrong role. They’ve got this thing where if they can find the right person for the right role you’ll get 10X the performance, and I totally believe that’s true.

There’s a reason why Instagram grew to, I don’t know, when they sold it was 50+ million people or something like that using their product, with 10 people.

Tim Ferriss:Kevin’s a smart dude.

Kevin Rose:He was good like that.

Tim Ferriss:[inaudible] the whole team [inaudible] obviously. 

Last question, because I want to be sensitive obviously to everyone’s time, you guys listening to the fine Kevin Rose III, Esquire involved with this interview.

Kevin Rose:I am the third, actually –not Kevin but Robert Rose, my first name. That’s funny.

Tim Ferriss:Nice. I got that right. Who do you think I should interview on this podcast in the future? Any nominations? I’ve had a lot of people say Dana White, President of the UFC,which I’d totally be down for obviously, being a big UFC fan.

Kevin Rose:The thing that would be fun is you’ve got to get outside of tech. Obviously there’s a lot of tech people in the Bay Area, but the thing that I would love to hear about, because you’ve traveled the world so much, you’re like always all over the place in weird crazy countries –you need to bring some of that culture to the show.

Even if you did something where you spliced together a bunch of different interviews to fill out like a half hour or 45 minutes, if you were in the Philippines or Thailand and you met some phenomenal freaking chef making amazing noodles and you do like an on-the-street interview about what drives them, what they use in their ingredients, what they love about their life –you see so much interesting stuff like that, that I would love to get a little taste of that. That’d be cool.

I know that you’re always about the really minimalist crazy getting the actual feel of the culture. You’re not the average “I’m just going to go a third-world country and stay in the Four Seasons,” so I think bringing that flavor to the show and bringing some of those personalities that are outside of what we get here in the States I think would be pretty awesome.

Tim Ferriss:Cool. I am up for all of it.

Guys, I want to be respectful of Kevin’s time and Graham’s time and your time, so I’m going to bring this to a close.

Kevin Rose:This 3-hour podcast to a close.

Tim Ferriss:This 3-hour podcast to a close.

Kevin Rose:How long was it? An hour45? That’s a little long.

Tim Ferriss:It’s like half the length of Joe Rogan’s podcast.

Kevin Rose:I think we lost pretty much everyone. @ reply me at @kevinrose on Twitter with #timtimgoodgood as the hash tag if you even listened to it this far. I bet there’s like four people.

Tim Ferriss:Two or three people. Let me know what you think. I would love to hear your suggestions –what you liked, what you didn’t like, what you’d like to hear more of, less of. Send me a note @tferriss and let me know what you think. Thanks for listening so far, and I hope to do more of these but only if you guys like it, so let me know what you think.

To that point, Kevin, cheers.

Kevin Rose:Cheers. Thanks for having me. Namaste.

Tim Ferriss:Namaste. Till next time. Good night guys.